---
layout: post
title:  "FOUL PLAY: ROCK CHALK JAYHAWK BABY and the Michigan Man"
date:   2023-10-30 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---


OH MY GOD KANSAS JUST BEAT OKLAHOMA IN FOOTBALL

In what appears to be the li’l ol’ hawks revenge tour, the state of Kansas has deigned to give the rest of the Big 12 a goddamned ass–whoopin before OU and UT get the chance to leave. After beating Texas in overtime a couple years back, the Jayhawks decided they weren’t done and gave an undefeated Oklahoma University their first loss of the season, a 38-33 drubbing this Saturday. It was cathartic watching the fans of a team that has spent most of the last decade in the gutter rush the field and tear down the goal posts. The Big 12, those damn nerds, will probably scream about unsportsmanlike conduct and throw out a fine, but power to Kansas — they need some hope right now. 

It’s part of a broader improvement in the quality of Kansas football since Lance Leipold (pbuh) took over. Bringing one of the winningest D2 coaches in the history of the sport to Kansas was probably one of the most successful things the AD has done. Leipold took Kansas to a bowl game in his second year there, losing a squeaker to Arkansas in the Bowl game. The team is already Bowl eligible this year, with only two losses against OK State and Texas. Beating an undefeated OU to secure bowl eligibility is probably the most stylish way Leipold could have done it, and it was probably the most beautiful thing I’ve seen in a long time.

With OU no longer undefeated, that leaves THE Ohio State University, Florida State, Washington, and Dem Dawgs as the real leaders of college football going into week 10. 

Hold on, I’m being informed there’s another undefeated team mired in scandal.

Yep, the University of Michigan managed to lose the goddamned bye week this year, when allegations of sign-stealing were levied by the NCAA. Apparently, a Michigan staffer named Connor Stallions was apparently buying tickets and watching various BIG 10 games to help give Michigan an undue advantage over their opponents. NCAA staffers started getting suspicious when they noted someone voluntarily buying Iowa tickets year on year.

The scandal is, to be honest, really, really bad. First off, trying to pay someone to steal signs from other games is a huge backstabbing of the coaching philosophy, something which many former and current coaches have been speaking out about since the scandal broke. The situation has continued to get worse as more and more information gets out. At this point, I don’t know what the NCAA could do except vacate a lot of Michigan’s wins in the last couple years. That’s a huge deal, and would basically put the entirety of the Harbaugh tenure into questions — is Michigan actually as good as they seem? How much of their ability to win has come from coaching and playing, and how much is coming from just knowing what the other guy is gonna do before he does it?

With Harbaugh already subject to constant scrutiny from the NCAA for recruiting violations, many believe this is another nail in the coffin for his tenure there. If he’s slammed for this, we’re talking about the vacating of the only two wins against OSU in years being wiped away, as well as playoff appearances and BIG 10 championships being completely off the table. It would also drop Michigan out of their top spot as the winningest team in CFB history, something I’m sure some of their rivals are excited about.

More than that, this is just a constant amount of bullshit with Harbaugh in charge. He’s a good coach, I’m sure, but he is genuinely incapable of running a program that doesn’t get constantly hit with various allegations, and this is just another in the revolving door of things that keep happening. Michigan just spent most of the last two years cheating, and Harbaugh couldn’t win a single bowl game from it anyway. That’s quite possibly the worst part of it all.

So obviously, the NCAA has just announced the death penalty for Mizzou and Harbaugh has to eat one of Lincoln Riley’s briskets, and we’ll call it a night.
