---
layout: post
title:  "Foul Play: And he'll yell 'To hell with Georgia' like his daddy used to do!"
date:   2023-12-04 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---


“I would like to extend my best wishes to all, even the haters and losers, on this special date, December 3rd – Donald Trump"
– Nick Saban

“‘He got me,’ FSU said of Saban sneaking into the playoffs. ‘That f***ing Tide boomed me.’
FSU added, ‘He’s so good,’ repeating it four times.
FSU athletics then said he wanted to add Alabama to the list of colleges they add to their fight song this summer.”
– Overheard in the FSU locker room following CFP selections

Months after Nick Saban’s dynasty at Alabama ended with an unconvincing 17-3 win over South Florida, in a game that was significantly closer than that score indicated, the Alabama Crimson Tide are playoff bound for the eighth time in 10 years. Just like we all expected way back in September, when Colorado still looked like world beaters and we expected Southern Cal to go to something better than the ReliaQuest bowl. It was hot off the heels of an upset loss to Texas and the week ended with Alabama dropping out of the top 10 for the first time since 2015.

Man, people thought Saban was fully washed in week three. And then, Alabama rattled off 10 straight wins, beating LSU, Ole Miss and Tennessee on their way to Atlanta to play the consensus number one team in the country. The University[sic] of Georgia, defending two time national champions, coming off their 29th straight win and their 24th week ranked AP #1.

And Alabama went to Atlanta, right into the heart of Kirby Smart’s domain, and taught those Dawgs to behave. Nick Saban is gonna get an honorary degree from Georgia Tech at the rate he’s going. He’s now 5-1 against his former defensive coordinator, and apparently one of the only people in the country able to beat the monster in Athens. Saban ends what I consider one of the worst Alabama teams in a decade with an SEC championship, going 12-1. And even if Jalen Milroe seems to waffle between Jameis Winston in college and Jameis Winston in the NFL, there’s apparently enough in this Alabama team to grind out a victory against Georgia. I don’t know ball that well, but that was a vintage “Bama is inevitable” game if I’ve ever seen one. A 17-10 lead at half time that the Tide just leaned on with a solid ground game to control time of possession. Georgia kept trying to make something happen, but by using two safeties instead of focusing on containing Brock Bowers, Alabama managed to contain the passing attack while forcing the ball towards Brock far more. I know that’s a bunch of football jargon, but I do want to stress, this was a very, very good game by Alabama. 

As it happens, the College Football Playoff committee agreed. Now, while my favorite Penn State fan, Kyle, has a lot more to write about how the college football playoffs handled the situation, I do want to point one thing out.

Alabama has gotten hot at the right time. They’re facing a Michigan team without a coach, and then a possible rematch with Texas or a game against a high-flying West Coast offense with a miserable secondary. This might be the clearest path to another national championship for a team that, a few months ago, was considered to be 10-2 at best.

I don’t know how Saban does it. And not only that, the corruption this year has definitely colored my enjoyment. I want to laugh at FSU for getting left out, but an undefeated P5 team got left out for a 12-1 SEC champ because the CFP wasn’t confident in FSU’s quarterback. Their first string QB had his leg broken a week ago, and CFP just decided that was it. 

That’s disappointing. More than disappointing, it's an insult to the team that played their hearts out to go undefeated. 

Either way, it’s bowl season. FSU is gonna go bowling, and play Georgia for a battle of teams that could’ve been. Alabama is going to get to backdoor into a playoff they have no business in being in. And with this being the last year of the four-team playoff, the stakes will never be as high as these past two weeks of games were.

Congratulations to the Tide. I hope FSU tears Georgia a new one and claims a national championship. And, as always, thwg!
