---
layout: post
title:  "Foul Play: Predicting the End of Nick Saban's Dynasty Again"
date:   2023-01-30 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---

Oh boy, I’m about to get some flak from our large Texas readerbase for this one.

For anyone who was watching the Red River Shootout this weekend, we were treated to one of the most fun games in recent memory, between defense-minded OU Coach Brent “Can we pretend 48-0 didn’t happen?” Venables and offense-minded Texas Coach Steve “Okay, maybe we can only win 7 games” Sarkesian, a back-and-forth with one of the greatest final drives I’ve ever seen and an incredible goal line stop that saved Oklahoma’s ass this season.

Honestly, I don’t think I’ve ever had more fun watching the RRS, and watching an undefeated OU play an undefeated UT made it all worth it.

And while the troll in me definitely wants to yell "BOOMER SOONER" and watch the chaos continue, I could genuinely still see a path for both Texas and Oklahoma to make the playoffs this season, with how strong both teams really are. I can see Texas run the table and I can see a rematch between the two in the Big 12 Championship, and watching the two titans of the conference run roughshod over them in their last season before jumping ship to the SEC is gonna be cathartic.

On the other hand, I would like to remind everyone that I was absolutely right that Lincoln “What is a brisket?” Riley was an absolute goddamn fraud. Look, I love the Wildcats but HOW DO YOU ONLY WIN BY TWO AGAINST THE UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA? WE WON FIVE GAMES IN TWO YEARS, AND YOU STRUGGLED?

God, I love the PAC-12. I’m sad that Fisch didn’t go for two when we tied the game up, but he’ll learn some courage sooner or later. I’m just glad I can be proud of them this year, and I really do hope to watch Arizona make some noise in the Big 12 when the PAC-12 collapses in a year or so. ‘Zona’s current losses are all by one score against good teams, or in OT, with losses to Mississippi State and Washington and now USC. I’d like to call them the best three-loss team in the country, so I think I will. It’s our turn, Nebraska (please, God, let us go to a bowl game).

In the ACC, Da U forgot how the clock works and decided the best course of business was to crash and burn against Tech, with a last-minute fumble on a goddamn drive with 30 seconds left sealing the victory for the Yellowjackets. Holy hell, I’m not even sure how to quantify how much the Miami fanbase wants to strangle Cristobal right now — the man seems to have no idea how to kneel out the clock or waste time. I haven’t seen such poor time management since Nathanial “Big Natty” Hackett coaching the Broncos last year. With ND forgetting how many players are on the field at any one time, and now this mess, I don’t have much faith in private schools to play this sport anymore.

And finally, for our weekly check in on Alabama, who were playing an unranked Aggie team that must have gotten blown out. If you’ll let me check the score, I’m sure it was—

26-20???? TWENTY SIX POINTS? TO TWENTY? Saban’s gotta be washed. This man has lost control of the program. Alabama is finished.

And honestly, I think I have the perfect solution to keep Saban’s dynasty alive. First, we gotta convince someone else to come on down South and take over for OC, since apparently the new guy doesn’t seem to be learning anything from Saban. Then, replace Milroe with literally anyone else who is capable of throwing the ball. And honestly, that Alabama team would probably make some noise in the playoffs, but the product on the field right now is just plain sad.

Now, if you don’t mind, I’m gonna be a sicko and watch the Arizona-USC highlights again and hold back some tears.
