---
layout: post
title:  Strike! Stop the presses!
date:   2023-11-06 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---

The Pittsburgh Post Gazette, the largest Pittsburgh newspaper, has been on strike.

For thirteen months. The Post-Gazette has been on strike since October of 2022, following years of labor disputes and a lack of action taken by the newspaper and its owners, the Block family.

This issue is one that has severely hurt one of the oldest newspapers in the United States, and recently, I got the opportunity to talk to two members of the Newspaper Guild of Pittsburgh, one of the five Post-Gazette-affiliated unions that are on strike. The Newspaper Guild represents staff inside the newsroom, including reporters, photographers, copy-editors, designers, and librarians. Unions representing the advertising and sales workers, pressmen, delivery drivers, and mailers have been on strike as well.

Andrew Goldstein, formerly the K-12 Education beat reporter for the paper, was the first person I spoke with. He’s been at the paper for some time, and has witnessed a significant part of the deterioration of the relationship between the newspaper and its workers.

It seems the issues plaguing the Post-Gazette have gone back years, with 2006 being the last year union workers secured a wage increase. While workers were able to negotiate further contracts in this time period, the situation remained precarious until 2017, when the contracts of the five unions working for the Post-Gazette all expired. Typically, there’s some negotiated agreement after a major contract expires — something to help put together a new agreement between ownership and workers — but in the 2017 negotiations there wasn’t much progress. The company brought in a law firm specializing in union-busting from out of state, and the firm refused to negotiate a deal that was acceptable to most workers. “When I say that, I say that meaning we would have faced pay cuts, lost job security, we had a number of our most veteran employees loose a week's worth of vacation. [T]hey changed overtime rules on us, they took away our right to arbitration. ... Generally, again, we would have lost just cause in our contracts, which gives us job security. Anyone could be fired for any reason at any time," Goldstein said.

It’s not hard to see why this would be  unacceptable to the unions, and while the Guild offered to negotiate, the company refused to change any of its workers. The lead attorney for the company is quoted to have said “We like our proposal” in response to Guild questioning, and from 2017 onwards, the Guild has been operating without a contract with the company.

Up until mid-2022, the Guild was operating on the same expired contract that had run out in 2017, but there was still significant friction between the workers and the company, including an Unfair Labor Practice Charge filed against the Post-Gazette in 2020 after the company tried to file an impasse to enforce their version of the contract onto the workers. A short time later, with health insurance premiums increasing (and the company unwilling to negotiate and help pay for the increase), the production unions, which cover the workers outside of the newsroom, went on strike, filing another Unfair Labor Practice charge against the Post-Gazette. Two weeks later, the Guild took a vote to go on strike. On Oct. 18, 2022, they walked out as well.

Since then, the Post-Gazette has been hiring scab workers to break the strike. They’ve removed workers from all across production, who have given years of their lives to help keep the Post-Gazette and maintain its quality and ability to publish. Some of the workers pushed into the strike had worked at the Post-Gazette for their entire lives, and others were working in the same offices their parents and grandparents had worked in. 

What’s even more frustrating is the complete lack of response from the company in regards to negotiating a new contract. King and Ballow, the attorneys that the company has retained for this case, continue to stonewall progress. The Guild has repeatedly tried to open talks with the Post-Gazette, offering plans that could save both parties money, and has continued to receive no negotiation. It seems crazy to keep repeating this point, but this is only a continuation of the lack of progress made between the workers since 2017. 

The National Labor Relations Board took the Unfair Labor Practice charge seriously. The case was taken to an administrative law judge, and the judge and the NLRB ruled in favor of the union, demanding that the company modify their agreement. Unfortunately, Goldstein explains, that while "we were very very thrilled and not surprised by that ruling, the problem is, at that level, the NLRB doesn't have the power to enforce that ruling. The judge said the company needs to restore our 2014-2017 contract and needs to negotiate a successor agreement with us. Without the power to enforce that, the company has pretty much ignored that ruling and is continuing to act illegally, and so we went on strike." According to the judge, the deal that the Post-Gazette is currently offering gives the workers significantly fewer rights than if the entire union disbanded and the Post-Gazette simply followed federal labor laws. With propositions like that on the table, it’s no wonder that the workers have kept up picketing and calling for some change in the administration.

The real issue comes from the people keeping the Post-Gazette working through the strike. The paper has been owned for many years by the Block family, and they have diversified their portfolio considerably. Block Communications Incorporated (BCI), the parent company, has [almost unlimited funds](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1177238/000095015205002490/j1231801e10vk.htm). While the Post-Gazette and BCI’s other newspaper, the Toledo Blade, were the flagships that made BCI what it currently is, the Blocks now have significant stake in local TV and cable. Using their profits from those other ventures, they have pockets deep enough to keep the paper running on scab work while the strike continues. The opposition of the Blocks to a union is a new phenomenon, and from their actions, it seems to be part of a concerted effort to force the unions out of the Post-Gazette altogether.

I also spoke to Helen Falon, a Professor Emeritus of Journalism at Point Park and a part-time copy editor for the Post-Gazette. She’s worked at the Post-Gazette since 1987 and has experienced long newspaper strikes before. 

She talked about the history of the Post-Gazette, and the interest in the paper taken by William Block Sr., the prior owner. Prior to the turn of the millennium, the Post-Gazette had spent time as the little brother of the Pittsburgh Press. In 1992, when the Teamsters went on strike, William Block purchased the Press from the Scripps Howard Company. For about a year after the purchase, managers and union workers across the board took pay cuts to help keep the expanded Post-Gazette afloat, something that they discussed with Block Sr. He was open to working with the unions, and during that period of instability, he made sure to stay close to the union. Falon spoke about his announcement of purchasing the Press, and how he “didn’t see any need to be so draconian with the unions.” That era of the paper is long gone, with the passing along of ownership through the Block Family. Allan Block’s tenure as CEO of BCI has been far less friendly to the unions, and his takeover coincides with the beginning of the friction with the workers of the paper.

The Guild has continued to protest, picket, and lobby for their case to be taken in front of a district judge where the ruling can be enforced. There’s some optimism among those I spoke to that a district judge would not only rule in their favor, but help right the wrongs that the company has been committing for the last half-decade. The lack of transparency is still a major frustration, and that’s something heavily emphasized by both Goldstein and Falon. Neither were happy with the stalling at the district level, though both understood how slow the legal system could be. Their case could be picked up any day, and should it be, the workers will be able to get a new contract (or at least a continuation of the 2014-2017 contract), and return to producing the journalism that the city has read for over two centuries.

Meanwhile, they work on their own, independent newspaper, [Pittsburgh Union Progress](https://www.unionprogress.com/), and continue to rally and gain support. Pittsburgh is still, at its core, a union town, and that has definitely helped with keeping this strike going. The Guild has raised hundreds of thousands in support of its members, helping pay for their expenses as they strike. Donations from the community and from the other unions, including Starbucks Workers United and United Steelworkers, have been instrumental in their ability to push. 

Most importantly, though, they ask not to be forgotten. The strike has been going on for over a year, and in a media cycle that seems to latch onto something new within a day, it becomes difficult to keep people engaged and willing to take action. It becomes really easy to just let things disappear into the background, and that plays right into what the Blocks want. BCI is hoping this blows over, and that scab workers are able to fully return the Post-Gazette to normal working operation, but it is imperative that that not happen. Already, the Post-Gazette is removing notices from their website that their current hiring is for scab workers, something that would put those who work there at risk of being blacklisted from other union jobs. The Post-Gazette is knowingly pretending that this entire situation is not happening, and they hope that we’ll play along.

I think Goldstein himself said it best: “We're not on strike because we hate the Post-Gazette, we're on strike because we love the Post-Gazette and we want to see it thrive and the people who work there treated fairly.” Falon echoes this sentiment. “Get this over with. We need good journalism right now, great journalism, and we're ready to go back and provide it,” she said. Goldstein, Falon, and others on strike are willing to go back into their offices tomorrow, if the company is willing to finally negotiate a real contract.

While the Blocks continue to try to squash this union, it's evident they’re here to fight the long fight. The Guild encourages people to avoid reading the PG, and support one of the many other newspapers in the city, to come and help picket or rally against the unfair treatment that BCI hopes to put its workers in, and raise awareness for the workers of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette as they continue to hope for a shift in the hostile company landscape they face.