---
layout: post
title:  Chatham takes steps to resolve financial issues
date:   2023-10-30 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---

Chatham University is facing a $6 million deficit, something which has made the university’s continued existence tenuous. It has responded with [layoffs and other significant changes were instituted](https://www.post-gazette.com/news/education/2023/09/13/chatham-university-campus-cuts-deficit/stories/202309120109).

Chatham has restructured its staff, eliminating 20 jobs. The university's leadership team has also undergone changes. Four departments have been consolidated into a new Academic Success department. Additionally, the library has been integrated into the Information Technology department. 

Employee benefits have been significantly reduced, with the maximum retirement match for faculty and staff dropping from eight percent to three percent, and spouses with employer-provided insurance no longer eligible for the university's self-insured plan starting in January. In August, the university's leadership team faced a 10 percent salary reduction, and there were scheduled reductions of five percent for faculty members earning more than $100,000 annually, set to begin on Oct. 1. However, as of mid-August, the implementation of salary cuts for faculty earning between [$50,000 and $100,000](https://www.publicsource.org/chatham-university-pittsburgh-budget-deficit-layoffs-rhonda-phillips/) had not been confirmed. These salary modifications have had a substantial negative impact on faculty morale, as they are now more concerned about job security and potential future program cuts and layoffs.

Chatham's financial struggles have been attributed to multiple factors, including escalating costs, an outdated financial system, and shifting enrollment trends. While the undergraduate enrollment has increased significantly over the past decade, growing from 600 to 1,200 students, the graduate enrollment has declined. Between 2012 and 2021, full-time graduate students on campus decreased by nearly 20 percent, dropping from 856 students to 692, according to data from the U.S. Department of Education. With Chatham President Dr. Phillips at the helm and her commitment to reorganization, the university is working to rectify its financial situation and enhance its competitive position in the higher education sector.

The situation remains very dangerous for the university, as even the much smaller deficit of $3 to 4 million they hope to achieve is still going to be difficult to handle. With graduate enrollment declining, and also being the best source for many universities to get grants or other further government funding, Chatham will need to start making changes to their model in order to deal with this deficit. 

Another issue appears in the manner of budget-handling Chatham seemed to embrace. A number of current and former faculty members at Chatham have voiced their reservations about the university's financial dealings. Among their [concerns](https://www.publicsource.org/chatham-university-deficit-accounting-budgets-faculty-excel-spreadsheets/) were issues like receiving conflicting information and encountering limited oversight in the management of program budgets and grants. They also noted the institution's heavy reliance on Excel spreadsheets for financial management, which has raised fears of potential errors in financial handling. The university has responded to these claims by forming a new department specifically to handle the budget.