---
layout: post
title:  CMU Students for Palestine coalition writes open letter to Jahanian
date:   2023-12-04 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---


On Nov. 22, a newly-formed coalition calling itself CMU Students for Palestine published an open letter to President Farnam Jahanian in response to his Nov. 10 statement about a pro-Palestinian walkout at Walking to the Sky, and about harassment targeting members of the Arab and Muslim communities on campus.

Five Carnegie Mellon-recognized organizations signed the letter: [Carnegie Mellon College Progressives,](https://tartanconnect.cmu.edu/CMCP/) the  [Middle Eastern and North African Student Association,](https://tartanconnect.cmu.edu/menasa/home/)  the [Spanish and Latino Student Association,](https://linktr.ee/salsacmu?utm_source=linktree_admin_share) [SPIRIT,](https://tartanconnect.cmu.edu/feeds?type=club&type_id=68266&tab=about) and the [Muslim Student Association.](https://tartanconnect.cmu.edu/msa/home/) The letter was also signed by two University of Pittsburgh-recognized organizations, The Progressive Students for Change and Students for Justice in Palestine. The remaining signatories were Against Carceral Tech as well as local Pittsburgh chapters of Friends of Sabeel North America, Jewish Voice for Peace, Party for Socialism and Liberation, ANSWER Coalition, and Sunrise Movement.

In his statement, titled "Holding Our Community to a Higher Standard," sent out via email on Nov. 10, President Jahanian condemned one of the chants at the walkout held by Walking to the Sky by Warner Hall — the phrase “from the river to the sea.” He linked an [AP News article](https://apnews.com/article/river-sea-israel-gaza-hamas-protests-d7abbd756f481fe50b6fa5c0b907cd49) and cited cases of Hamas using the phrase “as a call for the elimination of Israel and the eradication of the Jewish people.” Club officers who sponsored the open letter contest that claim, saying that the phrase does not inherently have genocidal intent, and instead refers to a desire for freedom for all people living in Israel and Palestine. Within the open letter, the organizations say that the phrase “is a simple and sincere call for all people from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea to be granted equal rights, equal freedoms, and equal dignity and respect under the law.”

Carnegie Mellon College Progressives board member Yon Maor, who is Israeli and Jewish, told The Tartan that whenever he uses the phrase “from the river to the sea,” he is careful to explain that he wants freedom for all people in that region. “It sucks that we always have to explain that, but we do,” said Maor, who was part of the team that wrote the open letter. “We are happy to be the adults in the room and always explain what we mean.” And Muslim Student Association President Tahaseen Shaik told The Tartan that the phrase refers to being “free in coexistence,” despite Hamas’ use of the phrase. Similar intent came from other people The Tartan spoke to, one person expressing that the phrase didn’t “mean to kill all Jews, it means to incorporate Jews into a greater Palestine.” At the same time, some people The Tartan spoke to affirmed that the call did imply the end of the state of Israel, though they stressed this was not a genocidal call. 

President Jahanian also said in his statement that many of the participants at the walkout were not Carnegie Mellon community members. The open letter to President Jahanian countered his claim by saying, “Make no mistake — what we saw on Thursday was the CMU community.” Maor said that “Some of our speakers were Pitt folks, some of our speakers were non-students,” but added that this is quite standard, and that most attendees were affiliated with Carnegie Mellon. These sentiments were echoed by another interview with club officers, who claimed that the majority of the people who came to that protest were members of the Carnegie Mellon community.

The open letter added that President Jahanian’s condemnation of harassment against Arab and Muslim students was insufficient. “Your letter makes clear that you consider our calls for freedom and equality to be a greater offense than these documented instances of harassment,” students wrote. In interviews, club officers reported on the significant increase in Islamaphobic comments on campus, coming from various parts of the community. 

Shaik said the Muslim Student Association signed the letter because it was the first open-letter effort across organizations that actually came to fruition; previous attempts at open letters had faltered. She also said part of the reason behind signing was that the letter is focused on not the Israel-Hamas war itself, but rather the university, where she says she believes change is more possible.