---
layout: post
title:  "Foul Play: Da Lahns Gahnta Da Super Bowl"
date:   2023-09-11 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---

Oh my god, it finally happened I cannot believe it Patrick Mahomes is 0-2 against JARED GOFF ohmigod ohmigod ohmigod

Okay, I’m calm. Hey y’all welcome to the inaugural second year season premier of Foul Play. We’ve never had a second season premier, so I’m celebrating this with fanfare, a small party, and of course, some good ol’ fashioned FOOTBALL.

Trust me, you’ll get a College Football recap eventually, but right now, I have something far, far more important to talk about. The fact that it seems Jared “Store Brand Stafford” Goff took down legendary Quarterback Kermit Mahomes in a nailbiter 21-20 game this Thursday. According to all known laws of Transitivity, the Lions are now the 2022 Super Bowl Champions, and since they finally did win one, I’m hoping the team can disband and move to somewhere less damn cursed, like Canada. Sure, they won’t win anything from up there, but how’s that any difference than the Same Old Lions.

And while the Lions are Shit Outta Luck this year too, probably, it’s nice to believe that Dan “Where the fuck are my kneecaps” Campbell might bring some joy to the tattered husk of Detroit. With his commitment to inclusivity and diversity, Campbell would change the spectacle of Detroit sports forever — one day, Campbell has been heard to say, even if “you have one asscheek and three toes,” anyone can “eat your ass.”

That is a real quote. I’m serious. I think I found someone who is as unhinged as me and I am making them the damn focus of this column as much as possible. I’d run into a wall for good ol’ MCDC. Speak your truth Dan, I’m going to see how much of it I can get published.

Either way, the spectacular collapse of the Chiefs was really buoyed by Kadarius Toney’s last minute trade to the Lions in the second quarter, as he managed to drop several serious passes and deflect another directly into the hands of a Lions receiver. I know Detroit fans are used to bad luck, but even at Ford Field people were wincing seeing the Chief’s get SOL’d.

Meanwhile, the Chief’s OL had apparently forgotten how to play the game of football and had their Right Tackle line up in the next zipcode. His feet were so far from the line of scrimmage I’m pretty sure that line must’ve gotten an order of protection because there was no damn reason for Jawaan “False Start or Starting Falsely” Taylor to act like that line was the salad bar at an Applebee's. 

Either way, the zebras forgot to call it. 

It became evident this Lions team was something different pretty early. The defense played, really, really well, and actually looked capable of well, preventing touchdowns. Sure, they still have up a lot, but I remember the 2022 Detroit Lions forgetting how to stop a ball from moving altogether. Meanwhile, Adrian “Hutch a ride” Hutchinson tore up the Chiefs, being, in my eyes, the Most Valuable player of that entire game. I do not want to be lining up across that man, and that’s not just because I’m about the size of a small midwestern running back. 

With the league reeling from the realization that it is, in fact, possible for Detroit to have nice things, many other teams are wondering if they’re next. The Browns actually called the commish asking if it was possible for them to win a few games this season, to which Goodell reminded them that the official motto of the city of Detroit is “At least we’re not Cleveland.” With Groper Cleveland still under center, I’d be surprised if Cleveland will be any good.

Meanwhile, in other news, the Pittsburgh Steelers.

The Giants woke up this week and realized that having two winning seasons back to back is overrated and promptly got some of their key players injured. I can’t wait to sit on my couch, avoiding playoff football in January, but at least the Cowboys will be able to keep me company. 

Football is back. 
