---
layout: post
title:  "Foul Play: No Fun League"
date:   2023-09-18 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---

This article is for a serious and informative reckoning of the NFL games of the last week or so, including Aaron Rodgers’ injury on the New York Jets last week. I am going to be respectful and make no attempts at comedy.

At the same time, line y’alls mothers up, Zach Wilson just won a football game! 

In a game absolutely nobody saw coming, Jets fans were able to experience all 10 phases of grief in a little under three hours on a Monday night.

If you don’t believe that there are 10 phases, I just want to point out that you’re supposed to go through them again when you’re drunk, and every Jets fan I knew was hammered four plays in after Aaron forgot he was 40 years old and got his ankle twisted in four places. He’s out for the season, except knowing this guy, he’s about to experiment with enough drugs to run a small cartel and show up next week fully healed and with a third eye.

But that was just the fourth snap. There was a whole-ass football game after that — and when I say “whole-ass,” I mean that the Jets and Bills both half-assed that shit so bad I had to combine those halves to get a whole. Holy HELL, what happened to Josh “Mr. January” Allen? The guy went from straight ballin' to becoming the best Quarterbacks the New York Jets have had in weeks. The man threw three picks. Three of ’em. Did he forget which team he played for? Josh, you’re supposed to get the ball to the guys in blue jerseys, not the green ones. Green is the other guys, Josh. Please Josh, I don’t want to have to say that Zach “Brady’d Aaron Rodgers” Wilson is a better player than you. He’s not, but you gotta at least play like you’re a good quarterback, dude.

Intervention for Josh Allen aside: man, this Jets team is beautiful. GW is a beast. Their defense makes my heart do strange things. If they had a competent guy under center, I would genuinely be scared for the rest of the AFC East. I fully expect at least a couple HOF’s out of this team’s young dudes, and they play excellently for a team that’s basically watched one of the biggest investments imaginable go belly up.

Did anything else happen in the NFL? The Eagles are 2-0, I guess. It’s fine. I’m not coping. I’m fine. I don’t hate Philly. 

On the other hand, the Vikes are apparently just regressing to the mean. They went 11-0 in one-score games last season, and I feel like they’re about to go 0-11. I fully expect this to be the best 4-13 team in history, with a positive point differential and everything, but I can’t see them making any waves in an NFC North dominated by MCDC’s cocaine fueled rants and Jordan Love and whatever magic shit the Packers keep putting in their QBs. I would put the Bears, but I still don’t know if they found out the forward pass is legalized.

The real interesting news coming out is that Zach sabotaged Aaron to try to get a start. An inside job? I wonder if—

I have been informed by the editor not to continue this joke. See y’all next week!