---
layout: post
title:  "Foul Play: Les Miz, Misery and Taxes"
date:   2023-11-13 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---

JIMBO FISHER IS FINALLY GONE

Aggies across the world cried out in jubilation when the news came that the shadowy organization that is the Texas A&M Boosters were finally so fed up with John James “Jimbo” “Eight Wins” Fisher that they decided to fire him to the tune of 75 million dollars. I’m once again reminded why being a fired football coach is one of the greatest jobs any man can have. Jimbo had worn out his welcome by taking one of the most consistently talented rosters in the entirety of FBS and somehow managing to put together the same level of performance as Iowa. And I’m not sure if Iowa has discovered the existence of the forward pass. Or if there’s an entire part of the game dedicated to offense.

Still, it’s disappointing news for anyone who plans on driving for the foreseeable future, as the boosters are almost certainly going to pay for this massive buyout by increasing oil prices in the state. Remember kids, if you’re complaining about gasoline, there’s a football coach in College Station who is entirely at fault, and the only reason anything is going wrong.

Jimbo’s awful performance at one of the most underwhelming excuses for an accredited institution (this statement proudly made by the UT fan who has a gun to my head as I write this), was partially due to his inability to put together any sort of competent play calling on offense. Incredibly, this means that the entire situation with Triple J Fish is gonna put the Ags right back in coach purgatory, with I’m not even sure who on the market right now. Pull Sean Lewis from under Deion’s continuously struggling offense? Try to flip Lance Leipold or Jedd Fisch from KU or ‘Zona? Normally I’d always recommend grabbing one of Saban’s coordinators from the Nick Saban School of Coaches who can’t Coach Good and Wanna Learn to do Other Stuff Good Too, but I’m pretty sure Saban killed both his coordinators behind a Dollar General and has taken over full control of the entire team himself. The way ‘Bama strangled UK this week looked like the typa shit 2020 ‘Bama was doing, not the same team that almost got whooped by USF.

Meanwhile, dem Dawgs were explicitly not taught how to behave and hung half a hundo on the Rebs. If that sentence was comprehensible to you, congratulations, you’re my target audience. However, that just showed exactly how good Miz was last week, when they lost by nine. Mizzou hasn’t had much to be happy about, but this season is honestly more than a little amazing for a team that went 6-7 last year. After a throttling of Tennessee to the tune of 36-7, they’re objectively one of the best teams in the SEC, behind Georgia, and possibly Alabama. If this team doesn’t get a NY6, I’ll be exceptionally disappointed, but honestly, if they build on this, I could see them in the SEC championship next year. M-I-Z!

That was too much damn positivity, let’s all laugh at the University of Spoiled Children some more. After starting the season 6-0, with signature wins against noted PAC-12 powerhouses Colorado and Arizona, Southern Cal managed to drop four out of their last five, their only win being a drubbing of another peer institution, the University of California. Wait, I’m sorry, I’m being informed that it was a one point game.

Notre Dame was not too bad and honestly, I’ll even let you take Oregon and Washington, but UTAH? You have a reigning Heisman winner, one of the best offenses in the country capable of balling out constantly and you cannot close a game to save your life. You’ve won gone 7-6 in your last 13 games, starting with a PAC-12 conference title loss to Utah, an absolute meltdown against Tulane in your bowl game, and now this?

Have fun in the Big 10, ya nerd. And you can quote me on that.
