---
layout: post
title:  Ain't baseball great?
date:   2023-10-09 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---

What’s this? A baseball article not from Kyle Hynes? Unfortunately, yes, our esteemed Real Sports Journalist Kyle Hynes was stolen this week by another section, something which I’m very cut up about.

MAN I missed postseason baseball. The regular season is this sort of confusing experience, where we watch grown men get paid hundreds of millions of dollars to hit a small ball with a wooden stick every other day for six months, but postseason baseball? Postseason baseball is different. Millions tune in to one of the most important American touchstones, lives are changed, babies are born, the angels sing and God Himself looks from His kingdom to see if this is finally the season that the Twins put it together.

Spoiler, it’s not. Minnesota professional sports are cursed and the next time the Twins win anything will be the first bugle call in the coming of the end times.

But meanwhile, we sure have a lot of other baseball to talk about. The Twins did finally go through with the blood sacrifice recommended to them in the beginning of the season and put together an impressive enough performance to sweep Toronto in the Wild Card in what many (read: me) called the game between America’s Little Canada and Canada. Since the USA won, I think we get to keep rubbing it in the Canucks face that they haven’t won anything international since 1993. Suck it Canada, we’re a hockey country too.

After putting all this effort into beating the Blue Jays, the Twins are now in a 0-1 hole against the Astros, who are rapidly turning into the Yankees of the 2020s and I am not remotely here for it. I’m rooting for some sort of Norse magic sending the ‘stros home but I don’t have enough faith in this sport at this point.

The D-backs swept the Brewers in their first postseason appearance since 2017, and went back into a rematch with the Dodgers. The Dodgers, forgetting that the object of this sport is to score runs, dropped into a 0-5 hole in the top of the first inning of Game 1, and got whacked with an 11-2 final score. Someone get Clayon Kershaw as far away from October as possible. Or, keep playing him, I wanna watch the D-backs sweep the Dodgers in exceedingly ludicrous fashion.

The Phillies also swept (man is there a broom in there or what) the Marlins to reach back-to-back divisions series. The fish didn’t have a chance, but I fully expect the Phillies to forget to play baseball somewhere down the line. They play the notoriously good Braves next, and put up a win in a game marred with fans throwing trash on the field. Don’t let anyone tell you the Braves aren’t good hosts!

The initially 13-0 Rays took their incredible performance into a wild card series against the Rangers, only to get blown out, scoring only one run across both games. The Rangers took care of business and now advanced to play a different AL East team in the O’s, the team who had the best record in the AL. It’s honestly really bad luck to have to play the best and second best teams in the league back to back, but the Rangers spotted another win over Baltimore and honestly, I’m rooting for ‘em.
