---
layout: post
title:  "Foul Play: They ain't play ball"
date:   2023-10-02 3:58:54 -0400
categories: writing
---


In the middle of a teary meltdown over losing my favorite pop icon to the Kansas City Chiefs, I decided to drown my sorrows in one of my favorite TV shows, “Whatever the hell Lincoln Riley thinks counts as a defense.”

Yeah, you heard me. Fuck you and your dry-ass brisket Lincoln. How do you go from being up 27 points against the Buffs and wind up winning by ONE SCORE? The DEFENSE is supposed to STOP THEM FROM SCORING. How do you manage to roll out a red carpet and say, “carry on, I like watching Caleb Williams have to play like he’s in the Big 12 every week”?

Jesus, I don’t know how USC keeps winning, and I cannot *wait* to see them get humbled soon-ish.

Meanwhile, the University[sic] of Georgia somehow managed to beat a struggling Auburn team by one score in a 27-20 shootout that really cemented their national dominance. Somehow, despite playing like dogshit sometimes, this Georgia team is just not capable of losing games. Knowing Kirby, he’s gonna find this article and somehow turn it into rat poison for his team, but I could seriously see Georgia lose a whole-ass game on their way to a threepeat. If Alabama was still the SEC powerhouse it used to be (i.e., had an offense), I think this year would be a lock for Saban’s eighth, but as it stands, I feel like it really just depends on whether or not Michigan or Ohio State can figure out how to win close bowl games.

The PAC-12 has already started falling apart, with Washington squeaking out a one score win over Arizona, and Oregon State taking Utah out behind the wood chipper and putting a couple holes in their plans to repeat as conference champions. Is this gonna lead to the entire damn PAC getting no teams in the playoffs? Yep. Will it be entertaining? Also yep. 

A lot of the stories of this season are still unfolding, but honestly what’s the most shocking are the storylines that I don’t think anyone would have seen coming. Alabama has gone from one of the most consistently good teams in CFB history to looking dangerously close to the end of an empire, and last year’s runner up, TCU, have been shellacked this year by every team that so much as sneezes at them. Colorado may be genuinely legit considering how well they held on against the University of Spoiled Children, but at the same time, I’m gonna be laughing when Coach Subprime hops over to another, bigger, university when the Buffs don’t pay out. Deion to MSU?

Another remarkable choke job came courtesy of the Louisiana State University Tigers, who got their asses handed to them by an absolutely miserable Ole Miss team. I’m not sure how Brian Kelly managed to kill his own team this early into the season, but hey, it happens. I’m sure next year will be LSU’s year.

I wish I had more to say about college football, but I need to go listen to "Paper Rings" on loop and drown my sorrows.
